# An Analysis of Extreme Political Violence in Post-CPA Sudan (2005-2020)

**This repository contains files for my lightning talk at UC GIS Week 2020**

2005 marked the end of two decades of civil conflict in Sudan with the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA), signaling what should have been a comprehensive, lasting solution to the conflict that had divided north and south Sudan until that time. Since 2005, however, Sudan has faced a litany of political challenges; some of these include the 2011 cessation of the south provinces and creation of the world's newest nation, South Sudan, the significant geopolitical tensions in 'Two Areas' states, the ongoing genocide in Darfur, and the 2019 civilian revolution overthrowing Sudan's longstanding despot Omar al-Bashir.

In this paper, I use spatial statistics to examine if and where extreme or non-extreme political violence has occurred in Sudan since 2005. I use about 20,000 records of point data from the Armed Conflict Location Event Database (ACLED) on Sudan from the years 2005 to 2020, with each point indicating the location of a given geopolitical event in this time period. I group these data into two  different point processes: 'extreme political violence' (EPV), defined as battles, explosions/remote violence, or violence against civilians (i.e. abductions, enforced disappearances, sexual violence), and 'non-extreme political violence', defined as protests, riots, and strategic developments. I then generate 15 kernel density estimates of the EPV data, one for each year from 2005 to 2020. Finally, I  use the Ripley's K-function to compare the EPV point process distribution to the null hypothesis of complete spatial randomness.

I draw two conclusions: 1) EPV has decreased across Sudan since 2012, and 2) EPV has a spatial component, showing higher concentrations of points in the eastern and southern regions of the country; in other words, the K-function of the EPV point process deviates from the null hypothesis to a statistically significant degree. These findings could be used to bolster support from local and international actors for the ongoing peace process. Specifically, they could bolster international support for Sudanese peace process, which has been waning with the signing of a peace agreement between the Sudanese government and several rebel groups in August 2020. They could also be used to bring in excluded rebel groups to the peace process table, given some still have grievances and unmet demands.

